# Pascal Standards

Pascal is an imperative and procedural programming language, designed
by Niklaus Wirth as a small, efficient language intended to encourage
good programming practices using structured programming and data
structuring. It is named after French mathematician, philosopher and
physicist Blaise Pascal.

# Standards

## The Pascal User Manual and Report

In 1974, The Pascal User Manual and Report, written by Niklaus Wirth
and Kathleen Jensen, served as the basis of many language
implementation efforts in the 1970s (BSD Pascal), and 1980s in the
United States and across Europe.

## An Axiomatic Definition of the Programming Language PASCAL

## ISO/IEC 7185:1990 Pascal

In 1983, the language was standardized in the international standard
IEC/ISO 7185 and several local country-specific standards, including
the American ANSI/IEEE770X3.97-1983, and ISO 7185:1983. These two
standards differed only in that the ISO standard included a "level 1"
extension for conformant arrays (an array where the boundaries of the
array are not known until run time), where ANSI did not allow for this
extension to the original (Wirth version) language. In 1989, ISO 7185
was revised (ISO 7185:1990) to correct various errors and ambiguities
found in the original document.

The ISO 7185 was stated to be a clarification of Wirth's 1974 language
as detailed by the User Manual and Report [Jensen and Wirth], but was
also notable for adding "Conformant Array Parameters" as a level 1 to
the standard, level 0 being Pascal without conformant arrays. This
addition was made at the request of C. A. R. Hoare, and with the
approval of Niklaus Wirth. The precipitating cause was that Hoare
wanted to create a Pascal version of the (NAG) Numerical Algorithms
Library, which had originally been written in FORTRAN, and found that
it was not possible to do so without an extension that would allow
array parameters of varying size. Similar considerations motivated the
inclusion in ISO 7185 of the facility to specify the parameter types of
procedural and functional parameters.

Niklaus Wirth himself referred to the 1974 language as "the Standard",
for example, to differentiate it from the machine specific features of
the CDC 6000 compiler. This language was documented in The Pascal
Report, the second part of the "Pascal users manual and report".

## ISO/IEC 10206:1990 Extended Pascal

In 1990, an extended Pascal standard was created as ISO/IEC 10206,
which is identical in technical content to IEEE/ANSI 770X3.160-1989 As
of 2019, Support of Extended Pascal in FreePascal Compiler is planned.

## Object-Oriented Extensions to Pascal (DRAFT)

This DRAFT technical report was produced by the Technical Committee
X3J9, Programming Language Pascal, a subcommitte of the Accredited
Standards Committee, X3. The draft is public domain and can be freely
used provided a reference to its source is made.

Download: [Original HTML File](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gmt3141/pascal-standards/main/OOE-stds.html)

# Referrences

1. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pascal_(programming_language)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pascal_(programming_language))
2. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niklaus_Wirth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niklaus_Wirth)
